---
id: 47yzx
name: The journey toward PMF
file_version: 1.0.2
app_version: 0.9.0-0
---

## Product Market Fit is **hard**

## Many unknowns on many dimensions

### **Goals:**

*   Reducing Risks Value risks
    
*   Pain worth solving Viability risks
    
*   The solution works for the client business
    
*   Feasibility risks - We can build it.
    

# Strategy (PMF Recipe):

## Many unknowns on many dimensions

### **Goals:**

*   Reducing Risks Value risks - Pain worth solving Viability risks - The solution works for the client business Feasibility risks - We can build it.
    

### **Step 1:**

1.  Find a **sub population** with commonality
    
2.  They have an urgent and pressing problem
    
3.  They are actively looking for a solution
    
4.  They are willing to pay for it
    

### **Step 2:**

Identify & prioritize the clusters of **pains**, **needs** and **desires (aka initial GTM strategy)**




\### **Step 3:**

Build a product that:

Solves their problem

Meets their needs

Exceeds their expectations




\### **Step 4:**

Expand the population by covering more **pains**, **needs** and **desires**

Product Market Segment Fit




Seems pretty straight forward..

So why PMF is so hard?

Getting to fundamental truths is hidden behind a **smoke screen**

*   Who are **Really** our users? Wrong answer - Developers / Engineers Less wrong answer - Right now, at this stage, Developers working in engineering teams which are mature enough to have experienced in their own life, and in their current role enough complexity, knowledge silos and knowledge gaps to actively revive their hope that there might be a solution out there that can work to elevate their teams toward productive as they are already true believers in documentation as solution to the problem.
    
*   What do the users **Really** need? Wrong answer - A code documentation tool Less wrong answer - ....
    
*   What is **Really** the biggest pain?
    
*   What will **Really** solve X?
    
*   What will **Really** make them appreciate the value?
    

The enemy is:

*   Not being laser focused - machine gun vs cannonballs, followthrough
    
*   Flawed reasoning - biases (confirmation, selection, survival) , Logical gaps,
    
*   Flawed sense making - not being able to connect the dots, bad or lack of input ingest.
    
*   Flawed decision making - Methodology, prioritization, efficiency, execution
    

Overcoming these is HARD:

*   It requires a scientific approach
    
*   It requires being hyper focused on the known (cannon balls)
    
*   It requires being hyper experimental on the unknown (machine gun)
    
*   It requires extreme discipline from everyone
    
*   It requires a methodology
    
*   It requires effective execution (skills, communication, passion)
    






Q: What is the best Segment to Fit for?Organizations that are actively looking for a solutionFor a pain




<br/>

This file was generated by Swimm. [Click here to view it in the app](https://swimm-web-app.web.app/repos/Z2l0aHViJTNBJTNBdGVzdC1wcm9qZWN0JTNBJTNBbmFkYXYtc3dpbW0=/docs/47yzx).